DOCS-5940-4.2-LP-Common-Dev-Strategies-kt (#851)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/common-dev-strategies.adoc

> = Common Development Strategies and Best Practices

Reviewer: Should this title include "App": Common App Development Strategies and Best Practices"?

Reviewer: Also, after looking at the subtopics, I wonder if we should shorten this title to use only the most precise of "development strategies" or "best practices"?
Or maybe "best-practice development strategies"?
"Common" is closely aligned with "best practices" and might be a bit redundant.
And I think our goal is to document only best practices.
Hmm... I'm sort of leaning toward "Common Mule Application Development Strategies."

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: anypoint, development, strategies, application, pattern, reliability, modularize, transaction, integration, orchestration

> Learn about common development strategies and best practices that can help you develop Mule applications.

Reviewer: Because this current topic-set introduction does not add anything to the sense of the container-topic title, I suggest preparing your audience for specific content by naming the subtopics, not by title, but in a narrative way:

"To help you develop your Mule runtime engine applications, consider [common strategies and practices such as] creating reproducible builds, modularizing your configuration files, and implementing reliability patterns, transaction management, continuous integration, orchestration in Mule, and enterprise integration patterns."

Reviewer: It is important to introduce the next-level topics in the order in which they actually appear. I cheated a bit by promoting modularity, so that I could use "implementing" just once.

QUESTION: Are these strategies and practices presented in any kind of order, such as from most common or most useful to least, or development chronology? If not, consider this. If you reorder the topics, reorder the intro to match.

== Create Reproducible Builds

> Create reproducible builds to facilitate the maintenance of your applications, by running a particular version of your Mule projects at any time. You can achieve this goal:

Reviewer: I don't understand how "by running a particular version of your Mule projects at any time" is related to reproducibility. Are we suggesting that the audience create builds that can be reused under changing circumstances?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create reproducible builds to facilitate application maintenance, by running a particular version of your Mule projects at any time. You can achieve this goal by:
```
or

```suggestion
Creating reproducible builds makes maintaining your applications easier, by running a particular version of your Mule projects at any time. You can achieve this goal by:
```

* Using source control for your Mule projects

> * Managing dependencies using Maven and an in-house manager. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Managing dependencies by using Apache Maven and an in-house manager. +
```
(The Foundation is picky about outside documentation mentioning "Apache" before component names, at least at "first" use....)

For details see xref:reproducible-builds.adoc[Reproducible Builds] documentation.

== Implement Reliability Patterns

> Implement a reliability pattern to design your applications so they are capable of reliable messaging, even if the applications receive messages from a nontransactional connector. A reliability pattern design couples a reliable acquisition flow with an application logic flow. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement a reliability pattern in your application design so your application is capable of reliable messaging, even if it receives messages from a nontransactional connector. A reliability pattern couples a reliable acquisition flow with an application logic flow. +
```

Reviewer: I wonder if we need to explain how combining reliable acquisition flow with application logic flow ensures reliable messaging? Will your audience understand this (I am not as technical as they are!)?

> For details see xref:reliability-patterns.adoc[Implement Reliability Patterns] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see xref:reliability-patterns.adoc[Implement Reliability Patterns] documentation.
```

== Implement Transaction Management

> Implement transaction operations in a Mule app for which the result cannot remain indeterminate. When a series of steps in a flow must succeed or fail as one unit, Mule uses a transaction to demarcate that unit. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement transaction operations to ensure that a series of steps in your Mule application flow either succeeds or fails as a unit, rather than producing indeterminate results. +
```
Please verify for technical accuracy. I was looking for a simpler way to say that...:
-Using the success or failure of individual steps in a series in a flow produces mixed results
-Using a transaction, in which all steps in a series must succeed produces one result: either success or failure

But, again, I am not as technical as your audience. For example, I am assuming that a flow is made up of transactions, which are a series of steps. Which makes me wonder what happens when transactions in a flow have mixed results (some successful, some not): does the whole flow either succeed or fail in the same way that a transaction does?

> For details on the different transaction types, transaction actions operations and how you can configure a transaction in a message source or Try Scope in the xref:transaction-management.adoc[Implement Transaction Management] documentation. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see xref:transaction-management.adoc[Implement Transaction Management] documentation. +
```
...for parallelism with the previous cross-ref. If you want to specify topics of interest in cross-refs., please do so consistently in each one: "For details on <this>, <this>, and <this>, see <cross-ref> documentation."

Reviewer: Alternatively:
```suggestion
For details on different transaction types, transaction actions operations, and transaction configuration in a message source or Try Scope, see xref:transaction-management.adoc[Implement Transaction Management] documentation. +
```
But please verify "transaction actions operations".

> Additionally, you can implement xref:single-resource-transaction.adoc[Single Source Transactions], xref:xa-transactions.adoc[XA Transactions] and xref:using-bitronix-to-manage-transactions.adoc[use Britonix to manage transactions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can implement xref:single-resource-transaction.adoc[single source transactions] and xref:xa-transactions.adoc[XA transactions], and xref:using-bitronix-to-manage-transactions.adoc[use Britonix to manage transactions].
```

== Modularize Configurations Files

> Modularize configuration files by splitting monolithic configurations into several files, and leverage Mule’s capacity to load multiple configuration files at application start-up time. Although it might seem convenient to keep your Mule configurations in one file, a very large XML file quickly becomes unmanageable. Modularizing Mule configurations is an opportunity for splitting work across teams, whether these teams work on the same project or on different projects with an accent put on reuse. There are two options to load multiple configuration files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modularize configuration files by splitting monolithic configurations into several files and leveraging Mule’s capacity to load multiple configuration files at application startup. Although it might seem convenient to keep your Mule configurations in one file, a very large XML file quickly becomes unmanageable. 
Modularizing Mule configurations also enables you to split work across teams, whether these teams work on the same project or reuse a module in different projects. 
There are two methods for loading multiple configuration files:
```

> * Side-by-side: Provide a list of independent configuration files to load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Side-by-side
Provide a list of independent configuration files to load.
```

> * Imported: Have one configuration file import several others, which in turn, can import other files. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Imported
Have one configuration file import several others, which in turn can import other files. +
```

> For details see xref:modularizing-your-configuration-files-for-team-development.adoc[Modularize Configurations Files] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see xref:modularizing-your-configuration-files-for-team-development.adoc[Modularize Configurations Files] documentation.
```

== Implement Continuous Integration

> Implement continuous integration (CI) for your projects by using Maven as your build tool. Create a build that gets triggered on every project change, and run all of its unit and functional tests automatically. By doing so you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement continuous integration (CI) for your projects by using Maven as your build tool. Doing so enables you to create a build that is triggered with every project change, and that runs all of its unit and functional tests automatically, enabling you to:
```

> Get early notification of issues in the software development lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get notification of issues early in the software development lifecycle.
```

> Ensure code gets fully tested before release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that code gets fully tested before release.
```

> Confirm that successfully tested branches ensure better success when merging to the master branch. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test branches to ensure success when merging to the master branch. +
```

> For details see xref:continuous-integration.adoc[Continuous Integration] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see xref:continuous-integration.adoc[Continuous Integration] documentation.
```

== Implement Orchestration in Mule

> Implement orchestration is Mule to facilitate the process of moving data through a Mule implementation based on flows. The orchestration implements business-level processes combining business-specific services across applications and information systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement orchestration in Mule to easily move data through a Mule implementation by using flows. The data flow implements business-level processes combining business-specific services across applications and information systems.
```

Reviewer: ...but I have little idea what the second sentence actually means. Is it that using a flow modulates processes involving different targets? Should we give an example of "business-level processes," "business-specific services," and "applications and information systems"?

Flows uses cases that orchestrate are:

* Simple integration.
* Scheduling data processing.
* Connecting cloud and on-premise applications.

> * Event processing, where multiple services must be composed and must operate simultaneously. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Processing events for which multiple services must be composed and must operate simultaneously. +
```

> For details see xref:understanding-orchestration-using-mule.adoc[Implement Orchestration in Mule] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see xref:understanding-orchestration-using-mule.adoc[Implement Orchestration in Mule] documentation.
```

== Implement Enterprise Integration Patterns

> Implement enterprise integration patterns as solutions for designing, building messaging and integration systems, as well as a common language for teams to use when architecting solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement enterprise integration patterns to more easily design and build messaging and integrating systems, as well to provide a common language for teams to use when architecting solutions.
```
This is my copyedit, but I am not sure how "patterns" work or what things are implied by "architecting solutions" (what kinds of solutions?).

> Mule reduces the effort required when building integrations by implementing the patterns that you use to design solutions. +

Reviewer: This sentence seems to just repeat parts of the previous sentence, without adding any information.

> For details see xref:understanding-enterprise-integration-patterns-using-mule.adoc[Implement Enterprise Integration Patterns] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see xref:understanding-enterprise-integration-patterns-using-mule.adoc[Implement Enterprise Integration Patterns] documentation.
```
